most of Madagascar's native trees have
been felled and replaced by plantations
of eucalyptus imported from Australia
unfortunately many of Madagascar's
animals can't find the food they require
in this new and foreign environment but
even so the pace was not totally barren
of animal life dead logs to anyone
looking for animals are fascinating
objects you can never predict what
you'll find beneath them Jan millipedes
perhaps snakes or here in Madagascar as
always something very special
you might think at first sight that
these small creatures are baby hedgehogs
but they're not babies for these are
fully grown and neither are they
hedgehogs although they seem to resemble
them so closely there are a strange
extremely primitive creature called a
tenrec and they live no one else in the
world but in Madagascar the local people
have superstitions and taboos connected
with nearly all their animals and they
have them about even such an inoffensive
little beast as these many men
particularly if they reckon themselves
to be brave and strong and unwilling to
touch them but Enric they regard as a
cowardly creature because when danger
threatens it rolls itself into a ball so
it stands to reason they say that if
they had much to do with it they too
might be infected by cowardice we made
quite a collection of tenrecs of several
different species which we brought back
to London but these two I'm especially
fond of because a month after we've got
them back to the zoo to our surprise
they gave birth to these babies
unfortunately the female was not a good
mother and killed several of her young
so it was decided to take the remainder
these two away from her it was a
difficult decision to make
4 you can never be sure how creatures as
young as these will take to a substitute
diet the composition of milk there is
quite a lot from one kind of animal to
another and as no one as far as we knew
had ever bred tenrecs before the zoo had
no previous experience to work on nor
had they an analysis of tenrec milk
however they fed these babies on cows
milk greatly diluted with water and
sweetened with a little sugar giving it
to them to begin with from a pen fella
fortunately they took it so successfully
then within a few days there developed
enough to be able to lap up milk when it
was given to them a few drops at a time
from a hypodermic syringe as they're
doing here when they were first born
their coats were merely furry but now
after a week the bristles are already
beginning to thicken into tiny spines